wip: Establish Security section for OTel documentation (#3652)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/security/otel-collector-configuration-best-practices.md

---
title: OpenTelemetry Collector Configuration Best Practices
linkTitle: Collector config
description:
  Follow best practices to securely configure OpenTelemetry Collector.
weight: 20
---

When setting up configuration for OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector, consider the
following practices to better secure your OTel Collector instance.

<!--
TODO: SHOULD only enable the minimum required components. What are those?

> --->

Reviewer: This is a GREAT question. I think the minimum is 1 receiver and 1 exporter?

Author: 👍 Included that as a statement in the ## Receivers and exporters section below.

## Receivers and Exporters

> - Receivers and Exporters can be either push or pull-based. In either case, the
>   connection established SHOULD be over a secure and authenticated channel.
> - Unused receivers and exporters SHOULD be disabled to minimize the attack
>   vector of the Collector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Receivers and exporters can be either push or pull-based. In either case, the
  connection established SHOULD be over a secure and authenticated channel.
- Unused receivers and exporters SHOULD be disabled to minimize the attack
  vector of the Collector.
```

I know specs capitalize verbs in RFC style, but I wouldn't do in docs. Could you lowercase all instances?

Reviewer: Also, please write `exporters` with lower case 'e'.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, as long as we do not make a definition that "OpenTelemetry Collector Exporters" are a fixed term for us, let's have them lowercase

Author: Fixed. Thanks all!

> - Receivers and Exporters MAY expose buffer, queue, payload, and/or worker
>   settings via configuration parameters. If these settings are available, users
>   should proceed with caution before modifying the default configuration values.
>   Improperly setting these values may expose the OpenTelemetry Collector to
>   additional attack vectors including resource exhaustion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Receivers and exporters may expose buffer, queue, payload, and worker
  settings using configuration parameters. If these settings are available, you
  should proceed with caution before modifying the default configuration values.
  Improperly setting these values may expose the OpenTelemetry Collector to
  additional attack vectors including resource exhaustion.
```

Best going with second person rather than addressing "users" if the guide is aimed at folks who can implement OTel security on their own.

Author: Sounds good. Fixed. This is a good improvement for what I copied and pasted from the source document.

> It is possible that a receiver MAY require the OpenTelemetry Collector run in a
> privileged mode in order to operate, which could be a security concern, but
> today this is not the case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A receiver might require that the OpenTelemetry Collector run in a
privileged mode, which could be a security concern, but
today this is not the case.
```

Why this is not the case today?

### Safeguards against denial of service attacks

> Users should bind receivers' servers to addresses that limit connections to
> authorized users, so that their Collectors aren't exposed to the public internet or to wider networks than necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should bind receivers' servers to addresses that limit connections to
authorized users, so that their Collectors aren't exposed to the public internet or to wider networks than necessary.
```

> For example, if the OTLP receiver OTLP/gRPC server only has local clients, the
> `endpoint` setting SHOULD be bound to `localhost`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the OTLP receiver OTLP/gRPC server only has local clients, bound
the `endpoint` setting to `localhost`:
```

In general, we want to avoid passive voice.  https://developers.google.com/style/voice

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: localhost:4317
```

> Generally, `localhost`-like addresses should be preferred over the `0.0.0.0`
> address. For more information, refer to the
> [CWE-1327: Binding to an Unrestricted IP Address](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1327.html)
> definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `localhost` addresses instead of `0.0.0.0. For more
information, refer to the
[CWE-1327: Binding to an Unrestricted IP Address](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1327.html)
definition.
```

> ### Encryption and Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Encryption and authentication
```

Please use sentence case for all headings.

Your OTel Collector configuration should include encryption and authentication.

- For communication encryption, refer to our
  [OTel Collector Configuring Certificates](/collector/configuration/#setting-up-certificates)
  documentation.

- For authentication, use the OTel Collector's authentication mechanism, as
  described in our
  [OTel Collector Authentication](/collector/configuration/#authentication)
  documentation.

**NOTE**: A security risk may present if configuration parameters are modified

> improperly.

Reviewer: I'd remove this unless we can be more specific about the risk.

## Processors

Processors sit between receivers and exporters. They are responsible for
processing the data in some way. From a security perspective, they are useful in
a few ways.

### Recommended Processors

> <!--- TODO: SHOULD configure recommended processors. If so, what are they? -->

Reviewer: - redactionprocessor (never tried myself)
- transformprocessor (great for redacting PIIs and such)

### Scrubbing sensitive data

> It is common for an OpenTelemetry Collector to be used to scrub sensitive data
> before exporting it to a backend. This is especially important when sending the
> data to a third-party backend. The OpenTelemetry Collector **SHOULD** be
> configured to obfuscate or scrub sensitive data before exporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the OpenTelemetry Collector to scrub sensitive data
before exporting it to a back end. Configure the Collector to
obfuscate or scrub sensitive data before exporting.
```

Author: Incorporated! Thanks!

<!--- TODO: SHOULD configure obfuscation/scrubbing of sensitive metadata. How? Give more details and/or link to an existing document -->

> Use OpenTelemetry Collector's `redaction` processor to scrub sensitive data.

Reviewer: I'd remove this line or provide an example in a subsection.

ensure your OpenTelemetry Collector configuration uses these safeguards.

<!-- start same page content in otel-collector-hosting-best-practices -->

The `batch` processor helps to ensure that the OpenTelemetry Collector is
resource efficient and does not out of memory when overloaded. At least these
two processors SHOULD be enabled on every defined pipeline.

For more information on recommended processors and order, refer to the
[OpenTelemetry Collector Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor)
documentation.

<!-- /end same page content in otel-collector-hosting-best-practices -->

## Extensions

While receivers, processors, and exporters handle telemetry data directly,
extensions typical serve different needs.

<!--- TODO: Extensions SHOULD NOT expose sensitive health or telemetry data. How? What can you do? -->

### Health and Telemetry

The initial extensions provided health check information, Collector metrics and
traces, and the ability to generate and collect profiling data. When enabled
with their default settings, all of these extensions except the health check

> extension are only accessibly locally to the OpenTelemetry Collector. Care
> should be taken when configuring these extensions for remote access as sensitive
> information may be exposed as a result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extension are only accessibly locally to the OpenTelemetry Collector. Take
care to protect access to sensitive information when configuring  these
extensions, as they might expose it accidentally.
```

### Collector's Internal Telemetry

<!--- INSERT RECOMMENDATIONS HERE. For example:

1. Remove zPages.
1. Remove configuration endpoints.
-->

### Observers

> An observer is capable of performing service discovery of endpoints. Other
> components of the OpenTelemetry Collector such as receivers MAY subscribe to
> these extensions to be notified of endpoints coming or going. Observers MAY
> require certain permissions in order to perform service discovery. For example,
> the `k8s_observer` requires certain RBAC permissions in Kubernetes, while the
> `host_observer` requires the OpenTelemetry Collector to run in privileged mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An observer is a component that discovers services in endpoints. Other
components of the OpenTelemetry Collector such as receivers can subscribe to
these extensions to be notified of endpoints coming or going.

Observers might require certain permissions in order to discover services.
For example, the `k8s_observer` requires certain RBAC permissions in
Kubernetes, while the `host_observer` observer requires to run the
OpenTelemetry Collector in privileged mode.
```

---

> title: OpenTelemetry Collector Configuration Best Practices

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: OpenTelemetry Collector Configuration Best Practices
linkTitle: Collector config
```

description:
  Follow best practices to securely configure OpenTelemetry Collector.
weight: 20
---

When setting up configuration for OpenTelemetry (OTel) Collector, consider the
following practices to better secure your OTel Collector instance.

> 
> ## Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

<!--
TODO: SHOULD only enable the minimum required components. What are those?
--->

## Receivers and Exporters

- Receivers and Exporters can be either push or pull-based. In either case, the
  connection established SHOULD be over a secure and authenticated channel.
- Unused receivers and exporters SHOULD be disabled to minimize the attack
  vector of the Collector.

> - Receivers and Exporters MAY expose buffer, queue, payload, and/or worker

Author: Thank you, @jpkrohling! For values that are too wide, rather than:
> remember that values that are too wide (such as a large queue number) might mean that the Collector will attempt to use more memory than a setting with a smaller value.

Would it be more accurate to describe as: 
> remember that if the values are too wide, such as a large queue number, then the OTel Collector may use more memory than necessary, compared to using a setting with a smaller value.

> - Receivers and Exporters MAY expose buffer, queue, payload, and/or worker

Author: @jpkrohling Circling back to ask your feedback on the above ^

  settings via configuration parameters. If these settings are available, users
  should proceed with caution before modifying the default configuration values.
  Improperly setting these values may expose the OpenTelemetry Collector to
  additional attack vectors including resource exhaustion.

> It is possible that a receiver MAY require the OpenTelemetry Collector run in a

Author: Can we ask a specific person or team for confirmation about this assertion? (This sentence is located in the inspiration document here:https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/security-best-practices.md?plain=1#L124 )

> It is possible that a receiver MAY require the OpenTelemetry Collector run in a

Author: @jpkrohling Circling back to ask if there's an answer for the above-mentioned question?

processing the data in some way. From a security perspective, they are useful in
a few ways.

### Recommended Processors

<!--- TODO: SHOULD configure recommended processors. If so, what are they? -->

### Scrubbing sensitive data

It is common for an OpenTelemetry Collector to be used to scrub sensitive data
before exporting it to a backend. This is especially important when sending the
data to a third-party backend. The OpenTelemetry Collector **SHOULD** be
configured to obfuscate or scrub sensitive data before exporting.

<!--- TODO: SHOULD configure obfuscation/scrubbing of sensitive metadata. How? Give more details and/or link to an existing document -->

Use OpenTelemetry Collector's `redaction` processor to scrub sensitive data.

### Safeguarding around resource utilization

Processors also offer safeguards around resource utilization. After implementing
[safeguards around resource utilization in your hosting](/security/otel-collector-hosting-best-practices/),
ensure your OpenTelemetry Collector configuration uses these safeguards.

<!-- start same page content in otel-collector-hosting-best-practices -->

> The `batch` and especially `memory_limiter` processor help ensure that the

Reviewer 4: We probably don't want to mention the memory limiter anymore, as we are in talks to deprecate/remove it.

cc @dmitryax

Author: Will remove the `memory_limiter` mention then. Thank you!

OpenTelemetry Collector is resource efficient and does not out of memory when
overloaded. At least these two processors SHOULD be enabled on every defined
pipeline.

For more information on recommended processors and order, refer to the
[OpenTelemetry Collector Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/processor)
documentation.

<!-- /end same page content in otel-collector-hosting-best-practices -->

## Extensions

While receivers, processors, and exporters handle telemetry data directly,
extensions typical serve different needs.

<!--- TODO: Extensions SHOULD NOT expose sensitive health or telemetry data. How? What can you do? -->

### Health and Telemetry

The initial extensions provided health check information, Collector metrics and
traces, and the ability to generate and collect profiling data. When enabled
with their default settings, all of these extensions except the health check
extension are only accessibly locally to the OpenTelemetry Collector. Care
should be taken when configuring these extensions for remote access as sensitive
information may be exposed as a result.

> ### Collector's Internal Telemetry

Reviewer 4: @codeboten, you mentioned earlier this week that we can export traces from the Collector. Do you have docs that we could use here?

Author: @codeboten I'm all ears if you happen to have docs on this. :) Appreciate it in advance!

<!--- INSERT RECOMMENDATIONS HERE. For example:

1. Remove zPages.
1. Remove configuration endpoints.
-->

> ### Forwarding [component developers?]

Author: Am not familiar with Forwarding. Is this content related to component developers? If so, I can remove it from this PR for end users.

Reviewer 4: I would keep this out, at least for now.

A forwarding extension is typically used when some telemetry data not natively
supported by the OpenTelemetry Collector needs to be collected. For example, the
`http_forwarder` extension can receive and forward HTTP payloads. Forwarding
extensions are similar to receivers and exporters so the same security
considerations apply.

> ### Observers [component developers?]

Reviewer 4: This is for end-users. Perhaps an example would be useful here, for users to understand what they can do with observers.

Here's one such example, where a redis receiver is created if a redis pod is found on a Kubernetes cluster:

https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/observer/k8sobserver

cc @rmfitzpatrick , @dmitryax

> ### Observers [component developers?]

Author: Amended the header here, since Observers are for end-users. 👍 

An example here would be good to have. Still need to incorporate what you shared, @jpkrohling, but I appreciate the resource you shared!

An observer is capable of performing service discovery of endpoints. Other
components of the OpenTelemetry Collector such as receivers MAY subscribe to
these extensions to be notified of endpoints coming or going. Observers MAY
require certain permissions in order to perform service discovery. For example,
the `k8s_observer` requires certain RBAC permissions in Kubernetes, while the
`host_observer` requires the OpenTelemetry Collector to run in privileged mode.

> ### Subprocesses [component developers?]

Reviewer 4: This can be removed. I don't think we ship any such components anymore.

> ### Subprocesses [component developers?]

Author: Removed! Thank you, thank you!
